{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s18\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright 
\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text 2;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 header;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 footer;}{
\s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid118958740}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat4\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid883903673}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid118958740\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid883903673\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\author Mike Rozak}{\operator Mike Rozak}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo4\dy18\hr8\min16}{\revtim\yr2000\mo10\dy12\hr15\min58}{\version381}{\edmins911}{\nofpages21}{\nofwords1622}{\nofchars9251}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws11360}{\vern71}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 \page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_HELLO}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\cs16\super $}{ Hello}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ hello; introduction}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Hello
\par }{\f1 
\par Welcome to Oil Painting Assistant!
\par 
\par Oil Painting Assistant helps you produce oil paintings of images from a scanner, digital camera, or the web. With Oil Painting Assistant, you load in a digital image, crop it to fit your canvas, and adjust coloration to suit your tastes. It also applies a
 grid to the image so you can more accurately sketch on your canvas. The assistant then displays an analysis of the image showing what paints would be useful for the painting\rquote 
s base coat. The analysis and grid-overlaid image can be displayed on your monitor while you paint, or printed on a color printer.
\par 
\par To get started, select the source of your image, either a bitmap, preexisting assistant session, or a sample bitmap, and press \ldblquote Next\rdblquote .
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx1440\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 \tab Mike Rozak - }{\f3 \'6d}{\f1 Xac
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1 I need to pay the bills too.}{\f1  This release is fully featured so you can experiment with the application and see if it\rquote 
s useful to you. If Oil Painting Assistant ends up being an application you use, I\rquote d appreciate it if you\rquote d register and pay the small US$25.00 registration fee. See }{\b\f1 www.mXac.com.au/HowRegister.htm}{\f1  for details.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1 I want to write applications that people use.}{\f1  This is a difficult task because the vast majority of users provide no feedback whatsoever; they don\rquote 
t register a copy (implicitly saying they like the software) or don\rquote t send me E-mail telling me what improvements the application needs. As a result, I\rquote 
m left in the dark, guessing what people want. Please do me a favor: Tell me if the application doesn\rquote t meet your expectations, or if it could benefit from one or two more features. Send mail to }{\b\f1 MikeRozak@BigPond.Com.}{\f1 
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_FEEDBACK}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Feedback}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ feedback; internet; e-mail; web site; bugs; features; new features}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Feedback

\par }{\f1 
\par I\rquote m always looking for feedback about what features I should incorporate into Oil Painting Assistant. If you have any bugs you\rquote d like fixed, or better yet, features you\rquote d like modified/added, then please send mail to }{\b\f1 
MikeRozak@BigPond.Com.Au}{\f1 . You can also visit my web-site at }{\b\f1 www.mXac.com.au}{\f1  for more information.
\par 
\par If you desire a bug-fix or modification, please send me mail at}{\b\f1  MikeRozak@BigPond.Com.Au.}{\f1  Make sure it\rquote s detailed enough so I know what you\rquote re looking for. If I\rquote 
m not busy, I may even be able to get it done by the next day.
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par Thanks,
\par Mike Rozak \endash  }{\f3 \'6d}{\f1 Xac
\par 
\par 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_LOADBITMAP}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Load Bitmap}}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ bitmaps; images; load; open}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Load Bitmap
\par }{\f1 
\par Oil Painting Assistant can only load in bitmap files (.bmp) and JPEG files (.jpg).
\par 
\par If you wish to paint an image from your scanner or digital camera then use your scanner or digital-camera software to capture the image and save it as a bitmap file.
\par 
\par If you already have an image on your PC but it\rquote s saved using a different image format, such as JPEG, then use image-processing software on your computer to save it as a bitmap. If you can\rquote t find any then there\rquote s one last trick:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {1.\tab Display the image on your computer using whatever software you normally view it with.
\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 2.\tab Press Alt-PrintScreen to copy the image to the clipboard.
\par 3.\tab Open up Paint from the Start, Programs, Accessories menu.
\par 4.\tab Paste the image into paint.
\par 5.\tab Save the image to disk as a bitmap or JPEG.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_CANVASSIZE}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\cs16\super $}{ Canvas Size}}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ canvas size; size}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 
Canvas Size
\par }{\f1 
\par Type in the width and height (in inches) of the canvas you intend to paint on.
\par 
\par You\rquote ll be able to select the region of the image you wish to paint onto the canvas after pressing \ldblquote Next\rdblquote .
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_PRINT}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Print}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ print}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Print
\par }{\f1 
\par Please select what images you wish to print:
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Entire original image}{\f1  \endash  This is the image you started with.
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Portion of the image to be painted}{\f1  \endash  This is the portion of the image covered by the canvas. If \ldblquote Print with grid overlaid\rdblquote  is checked then the grid will be printed over the image.
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Base color analysis}{\f1  \endash  This is the color analysis version of the image. If \ldblquote Print with grid overlaid\rdblquote  is checked then the grid will be printed over the image. You should make sure \ldblquote Key to the colors used
\rdblquote  is checked so you can identify what colors are recommended for the base.
\par 
\par To print, make your selection and press \ldblquote Next\rdblquote .
\par 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_SIGN}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Finished}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ finished; signature}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Finished
\par }{\f1 
\par That\rquote s it, you\rquote re finished. You can sign your painting and let it dry. Or at the very least, you\rquote ve come to the end of the application\rquote s wizard.
\par 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_LOADSESSION}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Load Session}}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ session; load}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Load Session
\par }{\f1 
\par You can load sessions saved previously when you exited Oil Painting Assistant. They have an an .opa extension. Note that the original image is not saved in the file, so it needs to still be on your hard drive for the session to load.
\par 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_PAINTNAME}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ New Paint}}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ paint; colors}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 New Paint
\par }{\f1 
\par Type in the name of the paint you wish to add to the list. When you press OK, you will be presented with a dialog that allows you to select the color of the paint
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_CATALOGPAINT}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Paint from the catalog}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ paint; colors}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Add a color to your palette}{\b\f1 
\par }{\f1 
\par }{\f1 Select the paint you wish to use from the list of standard paints, and press OK. If the color you wish to add isn\rquote t listed then select \ldblquote Custom paint\rdblquote ;}{\f1  When you press OK
, you will be presented with a dialog that allows you to select the }{\f1 RGB }{\f1 color of the paint
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_PAINTCOLOR}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ New Paint Color}}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ paint; colors}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 New Paint Color
\par }{\f1 
\par Please select the paint color so the base-color algorithm can properly choose the paint.
\par 
\par The easiest way to select the color is to paint a few strokes on white paper and then fiddle with the color-settings on the right-hand side of the dialog until the \ldblquote Color\rdblquote  box shows approximately the right color.
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_PAINTS}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Paints}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ paint; colors}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Paints
\par }{\f1 
\par When many artists begin a painting they first paint a light (as in not very much paint) base coat of colors. This a
llows them to make sure they have roughly the right colors, lighting, and proportions for the painting. The assistant analyzes the image and recommends the paints to use for a base coat.
\par 
\par This pane allows you to inform the application which colors you have in your palette. The program then analyzes the image and recommends a roughly painted base coat based upon the colors you have.
\par 
\par First, make sure to remove any paints from the list that you do not have or do not intend to use. Then, add any colors that you have but which are not on the list. And finally, you may wish to edit the colors to make sure they match your paints.
\par 
\par Before proceeding, make sure to select the algorithm used to generate the base colors. This can be one of the following:
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Existing colors}{\f1  \endash  Base colors are only from your palette. The algorithm does not recommend any mixing for the base coat.
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Mix two different colors together}{\f1  \endash  The algorithm may suggest mixing two different paints together in equal proportion.
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Mix existing colors with black or white}{\f1  \endash  The algorithm relies on your basic colors but may recommend adding various amounts of black or white to them. Paints of different colors are not mixed together.
\par 
\par You can experiment by selecting an option and pressing \ldblquote Next\rdblquote  button to see the recommended base coat. If you don\rquote t like it then press \ldblquote Back\rdblquote  and select another option.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Tip:}{\f1  If you want to use different palettes (collections of paints) for different types of paintings, you can save your current palette for later use.
\par 
\par To save your current palette:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {1.\tab Run the Windows application, \ldblquote RegEdit.exe\rdblquote . You can do this by selecting \ldblquote Run...\rdblquote  from the Windows \ldblquote Start\rdblquote 
 menu and typing in \ldblquote RegEdit.exe\rdblquote .
\par 2.\tab In the \ldblquote Registry\rdblquote  menu, choose \ldblquote Export Registry File\rdblquote .
\par 3.\tab Click on the \ldblquote Selected branch\rdblquote  radio button.
\par 4.\tab Type in \ldblquote HKEY_CURRENT_USER\\Software\\mXac\\OilPaint\\Paints\rdblquote  (without the quotes) into the edit box. This tells RegEdit to save Oil Painting Assistant\rquote s paints away.
\par 5.\tab Type in a file name to save your palette as and press \ldblquote Save\rdblquote .
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par 
\par To reload a palette:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {1.\tab Oil Painting Assistant should }{\b not}{ be running when you do this.
\par 2.\tab Run the Windows application, \ldblquote RegEdit.exe\rdblquote . You can do this by selecting \ldblquote Run...\rdblquote  from the Windows \ldblquote Start\rdblquote  menu and typing in \ldblquote RegEdit.exe\rdblquote .
\par 3.\tab Click the \ldblquote +\rdblquote  in front of \ldblquote HKEY_CURRENT_USER\rdblquote .
\par 4.\tab Click the \ldblquote +\rdblquote  in front of \ldblquote Software\rdblquote , under \ldblquote HKEY_CURRENT_USER\rdblquote .
\par 5.\tab Click the \ldblquote +\rdblquote  in front of \ldblquote mXac\rdblquote , under \ldblquote Software\rdblquote .
\par 6.\tab Click the \ldblquote +\rdblquote  in front of \ldblquote OilPaint\rdblquote , under \ldblquote mXac\rdblquote .
\par 7.\tab Click on \ldblquote Paints\rdblquote  under \ldblquote OilPaint\rdblquote , so that it\rquote s highlighted.
\par 8.\tab Press the \ldblquote Del\rdblquote  key on your keyboard. A message box will appear asking, \ldblquote Are you sure you want to delete this key?\rdblquote  }{\b Make sure RegEdit\rquote s status bar (at the bottom of the window) as \ldblquote 
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\\Software\\mXac\\OilPaint\\Paints\rdblquote  on it. Do not delete any other keys since doing so may damage Windows or other applications.}{ After making sure the proper key will be deleted, press Yes.
\par 9.\tab In the \ldblquote Registry\rdblquote  menu, choose \ldblquote Import Registry File\rdblquote .
\par 10.\tab Use the dialog box to find the palette you saved and press \ldblquote Open\rdblquote .
\par 11.\tab Run Oil Painting Assistant; it will now use the saved palette.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_GENERATING}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Generating Base Colors}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ paint; colors}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Generating Base Colors
\par }{\f1 
\par Please wait, generating base colors. This may take a minute.
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_CANVASLOCATION}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Canvas Location}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ size; canvas; canvas size; canvas location}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 
Canvas Location
\par }{\f1 
\par Please select what portion of the image you wish to paint. The region is automatically scaled to your canvas size. If you want to change the proportions then press \ldblquote Back!\rdblquote  and enter some new canvas sizes.
\par 
\par To change the size of the region, click and drag on the edges.
\par 
\par To move the region, click in drag in the middle.
\par 
\par Press \ldblquote Next!\rdblquote  when you\rquote re done.
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COLORIZE}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Contrast, Brightness, Colorize}}
K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ contrast; brightness; color; colorize}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 
Contrast, Brightness, Colorize
\par }{\f1 
\par This pane allows you to change the contrast, brightness, and color intensity of image. For example, you can set the \ldblquote Colorize\rdblquote  menu option to \ldblquote Very Colorful\rdblquote 
 so that when your painting will be more colorful than reality.
\par 
\par When you\rquote re satisfied, press \ldblquote Next!\rdblquote 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_GRID}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Grid}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ grid; sketching}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Grid
\par }{\f1 
\par The image you see is the recommended base colors. If you don\rquote t like the recommendations you can ignore them (as I sometimes do), or go back and adjust some of the paint options.
\par 
\par If you move your mouse pointer over a region, the title of the window will change to tell you what colors the application recommends painting there.
\par 
\par The image also has an overlaid grid. You can pencil this grid onto your canvas so that when you sketch the image it will come out correctly proportioned. This is especially useful with large canvases. The grid will be displ
ayed on images from now on, including printouts.
\par 
\par You can control the grid spacing through the \ldblquote Grid\rdblquote  menu item. The grid spacing can be anywhere from 1\rdblquote  to 6\rdblquote , or it can be \'bd to 1/16}{\f1\super th}{\f1 
 the height and width of the canvas. Choose a smaller grid if you\rquote re less certain about your sketching accuracy.
\par 
\par When satisfied, press \ldblquote Next!\rdblquote 
\par 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_SKETCH}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Sketch}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ grid; sketching}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Sketch
\par }{\f1 
\par It\rquote s time to draw!
\par 
\par Please take the time to:
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {1.\tab Lightly pencil the grid onto your canvas. You may need a ruler and straight edge.
\par 2.\tab Sketch the image on the canvas.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par You can use this image (and grid) to help you, or you can use the printout.
\par 
\par When done, press \ldblquote Next!\rdblquote 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_PAINTBASE}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Paint the base}}K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ base color; paints}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Paint the base
\par }{\f1 
\par Now it\rquote s time to paint the base colors on.
\par 
\par Roughly paint in a large areas of the painting, using the displayed image or printout as a guide. Of course, you can choose to ignore the application\rquote s recommendation if you wish. Don\rquote 
t use too much paint since may need to paint over it later.
\par 
\par Many artists paint on a base coat to make sure they have the general feel and coloration of the painting correct.
\par 
\par Tip: If you move mouse pointer over a color region, the window title will change to say what mixture of paints should go there.
\par 
\par When done with the base, press \ldblquote Next!\rdblquote 
\par }{\page }{\cs16\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_PAINTDETAILS}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super $}{ Paint in details}}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super K}{ painting; details; paints}}>{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super >}{ Small}}}{\b\f1 Paint in details
\par }{\f1 
\par Now that you\rquote ve got the base coat on, it\rquote s time to fill in all the details; the hard work. The computer can\rquote t really help with this part, so you\rquote re on your own.
\par 
\par However, you can use the application to zoom in on areas of the image to get more detail. Also, moving the mouse pointer over areas will show what base colors were painted there.
\par 
\par When done, press \ldblquote Next!\rdblquote 
\par }{\page 
\par 
\par }}